# October 5 -- Byron D'Andra Orey (Jackson State)

The Department Speaker Series will continue with a talk by Byron D'Adra Orey from Jackson State. Byron’s research is in the area of race and politics, focusing heavily on racial attitudes and legislative behavior. Prior to coming to Jackson State, he previously taught at the University of Mississippi (1999-2001) and the University of Nebraska, Lincoln (2001-2008). In 2011, Dr. Orey was recognized by President Myers as Jackson State University’s Teacher of the Year and was nominated for the state-wide honor of Teacher of the Year. He also is the recipient of the 2011 Jewel Limar Prestage Mentorship Award and the 2008 Julia Cooper Teaching Award, both presented by the National Conference of Black Political Scientists. He has conducted lectures at St. Anne’s College at Oxford University (Oxford, England), Emory University, Winneba University in Ghana, Africa, Yale University and Spelman College, to name a few. In 2008 he received a National Science Foundation grant to create a Political Psychology laboratory at Jackson State University. In 2009, Dr. Orey won a nation-wide competition with TESS: Time Sharing Experiments for the Social Sciences to examine the impact of such trusted sources as President Obama and former President Clinton on racial attitudes. He has published over twenty scholarly articles and book chapters and is currently working on two Book-Length Manuscripts: 1) Contemporary Racial Attitudes in Black and White; and 2) Strange Legislative Bedfellows: The Intersectionality of Race, Gender and Party in State Legislatures.

As usual, the talk will take place in the Seigle Hall Conference Room (#248) on Thursday (October 5) from 12:00pm to 1:00pm, and we will provide a buffet style lunch.

The title of Byron's talk is "Racially Traumatic Stressful Events and Symbols: African Americans' Responses to Police and the Confederate Flag." Details are below:

<details> 
   <summary>  <font color="#005f85"> Abstract </font> </summary>
  
   <p>
We conceptualize adverse interactions between police and the minority communities they sometimes serve as racially traumatic stressful events (RTSEs) and seek to measure public response to them. We implement two experimental studies, one on a white college campus and another with subjects recruited from a historically black campus in the deep south. We then measure galvanic skin levels while exposing the subjects to an array of photos, including photos of police conducting traffic stops. Our findings suggest the need for more research into the gender and racial differences in how individuals perceive such interactions. Further, we explore intra-racial differences in response among blacks, showing that attitudinal predispositions, in particular previous experiences with police brutality, violent encounters with law enforcement, linked fate, assessments of the public regard of blacks in society, and economic and legal disillusionment shape individual responses to police as well as to threatening images. The fact that mere photos of police conducting traffic stops generate responses similar in some groups to photos taken from the International Affective Picture System (IAPS) threatening photo series should be taken as a sign that these are important problems in need of more study. The IAPS threat photos we used included an attacking dog, attacking snakes, and a man with a gun in his mouth, a masked man with a knife, and a street scene with shooting soldiers. 
   </p>
   
</details>

[Full Text](https://polisci.wustl.edu/files/polisci/imce/oreybaumgartnersoroka-apsa-2017.pdf)
